# Version 2

Those are the changes I have done / have thoughts of doing in version 2.

## Assembler will automatically emit push instructions (done)

Now you can do this: `jmp FOO` instead of `push FOO; jmp`, etc.
Arguments are comma-separated, and pushed first to last. For example:

```asm
foobar 1, 2, 3;
// transforms into
push 1
push 2
push 3
foobar
```

## Second stack & regs (done)

> Instructions are written here as: `results OP arguments`.
> For example, `add` will have signature `SUM add A B`.

The main stack (on which operations are done) is now used like register file.
It should be kept small (recommended max size is 64 entries, in case I will
make fpga implementation of this thing later).

We now have 2 registers -- stack frame ptr `sf`, stack ptr `sp`.
We have a bunch of corresponding instructions:

 - `N gsf`, `N gsp` -- Get those registers
 - `ssf N`, `ssp N` -- Set them.
 - `spush VAL`, `VAL spop` -- Push/pop 64bit value into stack. Stack grows down.
 - `sadd N` -- Add value to stack pointer, to quickly move stack bottom (for example, for reserving space).
 - `VAL sfload[8|16|32|64] N` -- Get value by certain offset in stack frame. Offset can be negative, at 0 we have prev frame ptr.
 - `sfstore[8|16|32|64] VAL N` -- Store by offset.
 - `sfbegin`, `sfend` -- Begin/end stack frame. Will push prev stack frame ptr/pop it back.

## Short push-es (todo) 

Now we have not only `21 push` (aka `push64`), but also: `70...7f push i-7`,
so we can push `[-7, 8]` in 1 byte

## Relative call & jump (done)

Now we have `37 rjnz`, `38 rjmp` & `39 rcall` instructions, which are relative.
Also now we have `3a gpc`, which gets PC of itself.

## Debug info (TODO)

If code has this specific signature at the start:

```
21 xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx xx 30 69 76 6d 32
|                             |  ~~~~~~~~~~~ string "ivm2"
push                          jmp
```

Then it is ivm2 format. It is a toy elf-like format.
After the signature there is table directory:
```c
struct ivm2_header {
    i32 reserved;
    i32 n_tables;
    struct {
        char table[8];
        i32 offset;
        i32 size;
    } table[];
};
```

Tables are not sections -- they do not contain code, and are
meant for various non-executable metadata.

One of them -- `symbols\0` contains symbol info:

```c
struct ivm2_debuginfo {
    i32 count;
    struct {
        i32 name_off;
        i32 addr;
    } 
};
```

## Symbols and types (TODO)

Labels can be annotated with `.func`, `.table` or `.string`.

Currently those directives are working, but they only print that
object's address in assembler's stdout, and do not impact resulting binary.

## CRT rewrite (done)

CRT emulator was moved from custom renderer on glfw to raylib.

## Pthread removal (done)

Removed all multi-threading. I have no idea why I thought that would
make sense to use in the first place.
